." The first line of this file must contain the '"[e][r][t][v] line
." to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
."
."	$Id$
."
."######################################################################
."#									#
."#			   Copyright (C)  2004				#
."#	     			Internet2				#
."#			   All Rights Reserved				#
."#									#
."######################################################################
."
."	File:		bwctld.8
."
."	Author:		Jeff Boote
."			Internet2
."
."	Date:		Thu Feb 12 15:44:09 MST 2004
."
."	Description:	
."
.TH bwctld.conf 5 "$Date$"
.SH NAME
bwctld.conf \- \fBB\fRand\fBw\fRidth \fBC\fRon\fBt\fRro\fBl\fR
\fBd\fRaemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBbwctld.conf\fR file is the configuration file for the bwctld(8)
program. It is used to configure the basic operation of the server. For
example, what addresses and ports it should listen on and where it should
send error messages and where it should save files.
.PP
The policy rules for \fBbwctld\fR are configured using the \fBbwctld.limits\fR
file and the details for configuring those policies are described in
the bwctld.limits(5) manual page.
.PP
The format of this file is as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Comment lines are any line with the first non-whitespace character is '#'.
These lines are counted for the purposes of returning line numbers in error
messages but are otherwise ignored by \fBbwctld\fR.
.IP \(bu
Lines may be continued using the semi-standard '\\' character followed
immediately by a newline. This is the only valid place for the '\\'
character. If it is found elsewhere a syntax error is reported.
.IP \(bu
Blank lines are treated as comment lines.
.IP \(bu
All other lines are used to set configuration options. The format of these
lines is an initial keyword followed by a variable list of arguments
separated by whitespace.
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
.BI iperfcmd " iperfcmd"
The full path to the \fBIperf\fR on the system.
.RS
.IP Default:
/usr/local/bin/iperf
.RE
.TP
.BI iperfport " iperfport"
The port number(s) that \fBIperf\fR receivers will use.
Currently \fBbwctld\fR simply cycles through this range linearly.
\fIiperfport\fR can be specified as a single valid port number or as
a range as \fIlow\fR-\fIhigh\fR. The range must be specified as two valid
port numbers with the '-' character separating them. Whitespace is
not allowed within the \fIiperfport\fR. For example, \fB"5001-5004"\fR would
be valid, but \fB"5001 - 5004"\fR would be invalid.
.RS
.IP Default:
5001
.RE
.TP
.BI user " user"
Specifies the uid the \fBbwctld\fR process should run as. \fIuser\fB
can be specified using a valid user name on the system or by using -uid.
This option is only used if \fBbwctld\fR is started as root.
.TP
.BI group " group"
Specifies the gid the \fBbwctld\fR process should run as. \fIgroup\fB
can be specified using a valid group name on the system or by using -gid.
This option is only used if \fBbwctld\fR is started as root.
.TP
.B verbose
If this option is present, it directs the \fBbwctld\fR process to
generate more verbose messages to syslog.
.TP
.BI facility " facility"
Syslog \fIfacility\fR to log messages to.
.RS
.IP Default:
\fBLOG_DAEMON\fR
.RE
.TP
.B loglocation
Directs the \fBbwctld\fR process to report source code file and line
number information with error messages. This is a particularly useful
option to set when sending in messages as part of a bug report.
.TP
.BI vardir " vardir"
Directory path where the bwctld.pid file will be placed.
.RS
.IP Default:
Current directory
.RE
.TP
.BI datadir " datadir"
Directory path where output data files will be placed. (\fBbwctld\fR
does not currently save the results of the \fBIperf\fR tests. This
option is a place holder for when it does.)
.RS
.IP Default:
Current directory
.RE
.TP
.BI authmode " authmode"
Specify the authentication modes the server is willing to use for
communication. \fIauthmode\fR should be set as a character string with
any or all of the characters "AEO". The modes are:
.RS
.IP \fBA\fR
[\fBA\fR]uthenticated. This mode encrypts the control connection.
.IP \fBE\fR
[\fBE\fR]ncrypted. This mode encrypts the control connection. If the
test supports encryption, this mode will additionally encrypt the test
stream. (Encryption of the test stream is not currently supported, so
this mode is currently identical to authenticated.)
.IP \fBO\fR
[\fBO\fR]pen. No encryption of any kind is done.
.PP
The server can specify all the modes it is willing to communicate with. The
most strict mode that both the server and the client are willing to speak
will be selected.
.IP Default:
"AEO".
.RE
.TP
.BI srcnode " nodename:port"
Specify the address and port that \fBbwctld\fR will listen for requests on.
\fInodename\fR can be specified using a DNS name or using the textual
representation of the address. It is possible to set the source address
without setting the \fIport\fR by simply leaving off the ':' and \fIport\fR
specification. If an IPv6 address is specified, note that the accepted format
contains \fInodename\fR in square brackets as: [fe80::fe9f:62d8]. This
ensures the port number is distinct from the address specification.
.RS
.IP Default:
\fInodename\fR is wildcarded as any currently available address
.br
\fIport\fR is 4823.
.RE
.TP
.BI dieby " dieby"
Number of seconds to wait for child processes to gracefully terminate
before killing them with \fBSIGKILL\fR. This is in response to the master
process receiving \fBSIGTERM\fR or \fBSIGHUP\fR.
.RS
.IP Default:
30
.RE
.TP
.BI controltimeout " controltimeout"
Number of seconds to wait for protocol messages before timing out. This
value should be significantly larger than what typical users specify
for the \fB-I\fR flag of \fBbwctl\fR or \fBbwctl\fR will have to open
a new control connection for each new test it requests.
.RS
.IP Default:
7200 (Picked to be the same as the default for TCP keepalive)
.RE
.TP
.BI bottleneckcapacity " bottleneckcapacity"
This value is used in the algorithm to dynamically set the TCP
send/recv window sizes. This option is likely to be removed in the
future once a dynamic \fIbottleneckcapacity\fR algorithm is incorporated
into the code. (This option only really works when the local NIC is
the bottleneck.) If this option is not specified, the dynamic window
calculation requested by the \fB-W\fR option to \fBbwctl\fR is not
done and the advisory value is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
bwctl(1), bwctld(8), bwctld.limits(5), bwctld.keys(5)
and the http://e2epi.internet2.edu/bwctl/ web site.
.PP
For details on \fBIperf\fR, see the http://dast.nlanr.net/Projects/Iperf/
web site.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This material is based in part on work supported by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) under Grant No. ANI-0314723. Any opinions, findings and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF.
